Add brute-force exploiters' explanation pages (#4269)
guardicore/monkey: docs/content/features/exploiters/powershell.md

---
title: "PowerShell Exploiter"
draft: false
description: "Exploits PowerShell Remoting"
tags: ["exploiter", "powershell", "brute force"]
pre: "<i class='fa fa-terminal'></i> "
---

## PowerShell Remoting

[PowerShell Remoting](
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/learn/remoting/winrmsecurity)
is a PowerShell feature that enables connecting to Windows machines remotely in

> order to run arbitrary commands. It is commonly used by administrators to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
order to execute PowerShell commands on a remote system. It is commonly used by administrators to
```

manage multiple systems in a network.

## Exploitation

Machines with PowerShell Remoting enabled may be accessible to attackers if

> they come across the correct credentials.

Reviewer: In general, I'm not sure I like the language, "if they come across the correct credentials." We should maybe come up with something that's a bit more explanatory.

Author: https://github.com/guardicore/monkey/pull/4269#discussion_r1705247834

Infection Monkey's PowerShell exploiter uses brute-force to attempt to

> propagate to a victim through PowerShell Remoting.

Author: https://github.com/guardicore/monkey/pull/4269#discussion_r1705235816

![PowerShell Configuration](
/images/island/configuration-page/powershell-exploiter-configuration.png
"PowerShell Configuration")

### Credentials used

The PowerShell exploiter can be run from both Linux and Windows attackers. On
Windows attackers, the exploiter has the ability to use the cached username
and/or password from the current user. On both Linux and Windows attackers, the
exploiter uses all combinations of the [user-configured usernames and
passwords](/usage/configuration/credentials), as well as LM or NT hashes that

> have been collected. Different combinations of

Reviewer: This makes it sound like it can either use configured usernames and passwords or it can use LM or NT hashes that have been collected. But hashes can be configured and usernames/passwords can be collected.

credentials are attempted in the following order:

1. **Cached username and password (Windows attacker only)** - The exploiter
   will use the stored credentials of the current user to attempt to log into
   the victim machine.

1. **Brute force usernames with blank passwords** - Windows allows you to
   configure a user with a blank/empty password. The exploiter will attempt to
   log into the victim machine using each username set in the

>    [configuration](/usage/configuration/credentials) with a

Reviewer: You can also use usernames that were stolen.

Reviewer: Same comment for the remainder of the list items.

   blank password.

   In order for the attacker to connect with a blank password, the victim must
   have enabled basic authentication, http and no encryption.

1. **Brute force usernames with cached password (Windows attacker only)** - The
   exploiter will attempt to log into the victim machine using each username
   set in the [configuration](/usage/configuration/credentials) and the current
   user's cached password.

1. **Brute force usernames and passwords** - The exploiter will attempt to use
   all combinations of usernames and passwords that were set in the
   [configuration.](/usage/configuration/credentials)

1. **Brute force usernames and LM hashes** - The exploiter will attempt to use
   all combinations of usernames that were set in the
   [configuration](/usage/configuration/credentials) and LM hashes that were
   collected from any other victims.

1. **Brute force usernames and NT hashes** - The exploiter will attempt to use
   all combinations of usernames that were set in the
   [configuration](/usage/configuration/credentials) and NT hashes that were

>    collected from any other victims.

Reviewer: Again, hashes can be configured.
